# fldigi_modem_test
Test of the performance of FLDIGI modems under different signal propagation conditions.

## Methodology

Modify FLDIGI to accept more macros and modify linsim to accept more command line options.

Whith the modified versions installed:

* Generate WAVs of a test message with each modem using FLDIGI.
* Simulate propagation conditions using linsim.
* Read back the WAVs generated by linsim using FLDIGI and measure how well the message was received.

The modified versions of linsim and fldigi are in https://github.com/mirandadam/fldigi and https://github.com/mirandadam/linsim.


To replicate any single data point manually on the computer you use with your radio:
* You _do not_ need custom versions of FLDIGI and linsim.
* Get the test data from the files in this repository and paste it as your TX text then add a ^r to the end.
* Configure your transmit mode.
* Use the "TX generate" option to record a wav file. You should do this with your radio off.
* Hit TX. If you remembered to add a ^r to the end of the data FLDIGI will stop transmitting at the end of the message.
* Disable the "TX generate" checkbox.
* Use linsim to generate the effect you want on the audio file you just generated.
* Use the "Playback" option in FLDIGI to try to decode the audio.
* Compare the decoded text with the original test data.

## Caveats

* I recommend you run this in a virtual machine with Ubuntu 18.04.1 since custom versions of FLDIGI and linsim are needed and your FLDIGI configuration may be overwritten.
* This script may overwrite your fldigi configuration (it is not designed to do that, but I may have missed something).
* Tested only on Ubuntu 18.04.1. Results of the performance of the modems should be valid for any installation that FLDIGI runs on.
* The modifications to FLDIGI and linsim were made with care, but this test suite is very hacky. One needs be willing to code and must have at least a basic grasp of python to play with it. Configuration is made by editing the main .py file.
